Update DISCO documentation (#614)
epfml/disco: DEV.md

</div>

Welcome to the DISCO developer guide. 
Here you will have a first overview of the project, how to install and run an instance of DISCO and links to further documentation.

## Structure

The DISCO project is composed of multiple parts. At the root level, there are four main folders: `discojs`, `server`, `web-client` and `cli`.

> - `discojs`, or Disco.js, is the JavaScript library that contains federated and decentralized learning logic. The library allows to train and use machine learning models in a distributed fashion. The library itself is composed of the `disco-node` and `disco-web` modules, both of them extending the platform-agnostic code in `disco-core`. In other words, `disco-core` contains most of the implementation but can't be used by itself, while `disco-web` and `disco-node` allow using `disco-core` via different technologies. To some extents, you can think of `disco-core` as an abstract class extended by `disco-web`and `disco-node`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `discojs`, or Disco.js, is the TypeScript library that contains federated and decentralized learning logic. The library allows to train and use machine learning models in a distributed fashion. The library itself is composed of the `disco-node` and `disco-web` modules, both of them extending the platform-agnostic code in `disco-core`. In other words, `disco-core` contains most of the implementation but can't be used by itself, while `disco-web` and `disco-node` allow using `disco-core` via different architectures. To some extents, you can think of `disco-core` as an abstract class extended by `disco-web`and `disco-node`.
```

Here is a summary diagram:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph discojs
    discojs-node-->|extends|discojs-core;
    discojs-web-->|extends|discojs-core;
  end
  subgraph User Interface
    web-client-->|uses|discojs-web;
    custom_browser["custom browser implementation"]-->|uses|discojs-web;
    server-->| uses |discojs-node;
    cli-->|uses|discojs-node;
    custom_node["custom Node.js scripts"]-->|uses|discojs-node;
  end
``` 

## Installation guide

The following instructions will install the required dependencies, build Disco.js and launch a DISCO server and a web client. If you run into any sort of trouble check our [FAQ](./docs/FAQ.md); otherwise please create a new issue or feel free to ask on [our slack](https://join.slack.com/t/disco-decentralized/shared_invite/zt-fpsb7c9h-1M9hnbaSonZ7lAgJRTyNsw). 

1. We recommend using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (Node Version Manager) to handle multiple Node.js versions. Start by installing `nvm` by following [their installation instructions](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).
After installation, you should be able to run
```
nvm -v
0.39.7 # my nvm version at the time
```
2. Install Node.js version 16
```
nvm install 16
```

> You can now choose which Node.js version to use:

Reviewer: is there a minimal node js version one need to use? if so, that'll be the right place to state it.

Author: I don't know, however I saw there were different npm run scripts for node 17

Reviewer: alright, we'll see if/when it breaks then

```
nvm use 16
```
Using Node.js v16 should automatically set your [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm) (Node Package Manager, different from n**v**m) version to 8:
```
npm --version
8.xx.xx
```
`nvm` manages your different Node.js versions while `npm` handles your different Node.js project packages within one version.

3. Clone the repository
```
git clone git@github.com:epfml/disco.git
cd disco
```

4. Run the installation script
```

> sh install.sh

Reviewer: no need to actively run it with `sh`, the [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)) takes care of that

```suggestion
./install.sh
```

Author: I'm not well versed in shell scripts but I think using sh ensures we can run the script without having to chmod +x, am I wrong? At least on my mac I can't run ./install.sh directly

Reviewer: indeed, only executable files can use a shebang; git actually tracks file modes so you can `chmod +x` and that'll work for fresh install also
in our case, it is not really relevant that it is, or not, a shell script that we run, it's only a way to install deps. I think having it as executable makes it more obvious that it is meant to be run

```

<details>

>   <summary><b>What does <code>install.sh</code> do?</b></summary>

Reviewer: details are so fancy, I love it! but consider moving this section as comments in the install script as to easily keep code and explanation in sync

Author: Unfortunately, I think you're right. I got blinded by my desire for fancy details. I'm moving it to a new Section.

  </br>

>   The installation script installs the dependencies required by the different parts of the project, which are described in the Structure section.

Reviewer: worth a link to the named section (or don't worry about it if moving to a code)

  npm run build
  ```
  The script then installs dependencies for the web client, which implements a browser UI.
  By default, the project points to the [@epfml/disco-web](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epfml/discojs) package published on the `npm` remote repository. In a development environment, we want to use the local web client in the `discojs/web-client` folder. To do so, we need to link the local folder as the actual dependency.
  
  ```
  cd ../web-client
  npm ci
  npm link ../discojs/discojs-web
  ```
  You can verify than the link is effective by checking that `npm ls` lists `@epfml/discojs@x.x.x -> ./../discojs/discojs-web`.

  Similarly, we install the server dependencies, and then the `discojs-node` dependency to the local folder rather than the remote npm package [@epfml/disco-node](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@epfml/discojs-node):
  ```
  cd ../server
  npm ci
  npm link ../discojs/discojs-node
  ```
  Install the CLI dependencies:
  ```
  cd ../cli
  npm ci
  ```
  Install `ts-node` globally. `ts-node` lets us compile and run TypeScript code in a single command.
  ```
  cd ..
  npm install -g ts-node

>   ```

Reviewer: installing ts-node is not really required for running disco, is it? it's more of a dev tool. consider moving it out of the install script and add it as a quick note.

Author: That makes me realize that there is no clear distinction between installation for dev users and contributors. Similarly, the script should probably not link local modules for dev users as it currently does. Should I change that now or will the npm --workspaces take care of it @tharvik ?

Author: I'm adding contributor specific instructions in `ONBOARDING.md` but I'm leaving the npm links in `install.sh` for now

Reviewer: the links won't be needed when using workspaces as it'll be automatically created using `npm i`. I'll update the doc as necessary via #617
